[Music]
that's crazy that the most interesting
things about this new laptop are the
reasons not to buy it so the MacBook Air
just got refreshed it's a pretty simple
update maybe a boring one actually
there's really only two things new it
has this new anodization on the outside
apparently a slightly more fingerprint
resistant look to it and it has the new
M3 chip inside so the coating I don't
know it it barely makes a difference if
I'm being honest it still gets
fingerprints if you handle it regularly
without a skin or a case I would much
rather depend on something like a skin
from Channel sponsor dbrand it lets you
break out from one of the three really
simple colors and it's going to hide
fingerprints a million times better than
any metal treatment ever could plus
these are real leather so they have a
nice plush texture and a little patina
over time so I'll leave a link to this
one below but the other new thing is
this M3 chip inside so we've seen this
M3 chip before this is what Apple does
they put the same chip everywhere this
came out in October of last year and
they immediately put it in the new iMac
and then we also got a new Macbook Pro
that launched with this and the M3 Pro
and the M3 Max so okay new M3 Apple
silicon third generation great so now
we're finally getting this new base M3
chip in the new Macbook Air side note
why does it take so long I don't know I
feels like apple kind of staggers it
probably on purpose but like it's the
same chip everywhere they've done the
iMac they've done the MacBook Pro and
MacBook Air but the Mac Mini just
staying on M2 kind of weird also the new
iPad Pro still on M2 when's that going
to get it anyway you already know that
the the MacBook Air is the most popular
Mac for a reason this is the base like
entrylevel mac that most people are
seeing as the way to get into the Mac
world and so the base MacBook Air has
typically been one of the easiest to
recommend laptops in the world by Design
but this one interestingly for two
reasons isn't now this has nothing to do
with performance of M3 or anything weird
like that like it's the performance were
expecting if you look at benchmarks it's
right around that 10 to 20% improvement
over M2 depending on what you're doing
definitely leans heavier on Graphics
improvements this generation and there's
the ray tracing now finally so any
applications or rendering that are
taking advantage of that that's going to
be a noticeable Improvement for M3 and
it's clearly a more capable chip and
also MacBook airs especially the 50in
just constantly get great battery life
across the board you also get now dual
external display support with the lid
closed but One external display with the
laptop open and it also appears that the
base storage on M3 is much improved so
this was one of those concerns from if
you look back at M2 you know obviously
apple seeds reviewers with higher-end
MacBooks so most of us aren't getting
that but if you look back at M2 the base
256 gig model used a single SSD module
instead of two ssds long story short
that storage module was way slower than
M1 like 50% slower on paper would you
have noticed if nobody told you and it
never benchmarked mared it maybe
possibly not but obviously it's a bummer
having way slower storage on a new M2
and that extra time transferring large
files that adds up over time so I'm
happy to report that I've seen really
good benchmarks on the base storage of
the M3 air it appears that they fixed it
awesome so what's the deal with this M3
air then why am I saying it's not
necessarily the best recommendation well
historically MacBook Air has been super
easy to recommend but with this M3 they
also loow the price of M2 by 100 bucks
and discontinued the M1 so now the
lineup is M3 MacBook Air starts at
$10.99 then M2 MacBook Air starts at
$9.99 and then M1 it's kind of gone from
Apple but you can still find stock
that's left at like Walmart or Best Buy
now the thing about the MacBook Air
being easy to recommend is we're talking
about regular people which it's very
light regular normal usage like web
bring listening to music a bunch of tabs
open work stuff occasionally compiling
or rendering some small things photo
editing and chopping a video or two
sometimes but really very light so these
people like type of people who would buy
a laptop at Walmart would be totally
fine with the cheaper identical looking
MacBook Air with the slightly slower M2
Chip and slower storage I think they
would be totally fine but the other
thing which I need to talk about is this
whole base spec thing this is not
exactly new to the industry but the base
price and the base spec has almost
become like this weird fallacy like I
think it was lonus who did a video about
how starting at is like the biggest lie
in Tech and he's right it's not just
Tech like the car industry does it all
the time too starting at you know this
super low price but nobody actually gets
it at that price you're not going to get
a totally bare base model car the base
price is really more to give you an idea
of how much you're about to spend when
you actually option it up the way you
want to and the issue with these is
Apple's markup prices for above base
spec is crazy high like apple charges
way too much for the most basic upgrades
obviously Apple silicon computers are
all a system on a chip so they cannot be
upgraded ever after you buy them right
so once you buy it you know you're kind
of incentivized if you're going to keep
it for a long time to splurge a little
bit and give yourself some extra
Headroom and future proof it and bump up
that spec but Apple charges so much for
bumping up that spec that the base price
feels like kind of even more of a lie
than usual so the MacBook Air starts in
2024 again at 8 gigs of shared RAM and
256 gigs of storage now ignoring the
fact that the phone I'm using also has
more than 8 gigs of RAM and 256 gigs of
storage if you want to upgrade to 16
gigs of memory the first available ram
upgrade that's
$200 and if you want to bump up to just
half a terab of storage that's another
$200 more compared to how much that
actually costs Apple especially at the
scale that they're operating that is
just crazy brutal ridiculous pricing so
even if you do just that suddenly the
MacBook Air M3 is
$1,500 so either you're cool with
knowing you're actually buying a $1,500
plus doll MacBook Air or the real
question is is the base spec in
2024 actually usable and my take is
actually sometimes yes sometimes yes so
again if you're the people I talked
about earlier you're you're buying a
laptop from the showcase at Walmart or
Best Buy you just needed to do the basic
stuff I mentioned earlier you actually
can do that with 8 gigs of shared memory
no problem this might seem like a hot
take but I've spent a lot of time doing
this stuff you rarely actually get close
to hitting the Max and hitting memory
Swap and even when you do it's very much
still fine it's when you get into the
heavier stuff like media encoding or X
recing or gaming that it's a whole
another story so if you're watching this
video you already know which group of
people you're in so for that massive
group of people who are doing a lot of
that normal Baseline Computing stuff
don't buy the new M3 MacBook Air you can
very easily get an M2 MacBook Air and
save your money matter of fact if you
don't need the brighter display the mag
safe the external display support which
you probably don't at this rate it's
also a great idea to look into to Best
Buy or Walmart's like $6 $700 M1 MacBook
airs that they're selling right now I
think Walmart first announced they would
have it for $6.99 and then a few days
later Best Buy announced that they'd
sell it for $6.49 which is pretty sick
so clearly M3 is a much more capable
overall chip and brings the floor of the
laptop up but the way I see it what
Apple silicon has done to Apple's lineup
is it's brought down the minimum level
of machine that you can get away with
doing your workflow does that make sense
so like me I edit a lot of videos and so
I need a powerful machine for Final Cut
Pro and that sort of stuff right so for
the longest time I could only use an
apple desktop the highest and iMac Pro
the Mac Pro and I still will but I am
now able to use Mac Studio and I can
actually edit I've had an M1 Max MacBook
Pro for a while and I've been editing on
the go with a laptop which which is a
huge like enabler for me and the same
sort of thing applies if you're doing
like gaming stuff or if you have a whole
bunch of coding and heavy maybe even
just encoding photos or whatever you're
doing at that level you'd typically rely
on a MacBook Pro but with these new
chips and with apple silicon you can do
that on a high-end MacBook Air which is
again a pretty sweet enabler so that's
what the new M3 MacBook Air is if you do
that sort of stuff it's an amazing
computer it should be on your short L
great all around easy to recommend but
again if you're doing the lightweight
normal stuff and you need a MacBook Air
don't get this one get the cheaper one
okay that's it thanks for watching catch
you guys the next one
peace it's the money it's it's the money
it's it's the money